# AI-Agent-CSM-UPRM-UND

This project is performed in collaboration with academics from the University of Puerto Rico, Mayaguez and the University of Notre Dame. The goal of this project is to develop an AI agent specialized in computational soft matter research. It will use a vectorial data base, a restful api to protect the openai api key and will be hosted on a server.

This Streamlit app allows users to upload files, process them, run a LAMMPS simulation, and chat with an AI agent. The app utilizes various libraries and tools, including Streamlit, PyPDF2, docx, subprocess, OpenAI, Hugging Face, and more.

## Setup

Install the required packages: 
  - pip install -r requirements.txt

Ensure you have the necessary APIs and keys for OpenAI

Make sure you have installed on your system the Large-scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator (LAMMPS) program

Running the App

Run the Streamlit app using: 
-   streamlit run main.py

Upload your files (PDF or DOCX).

Ask questions about the files or run a LAMMPS simulation.

## File Processing

1. PDF files are processed using PyPDF2 to extract text.
2. DOCX files are processed using the python-docx library to extract text.
3. CSV files are supported.
4. Text Chunking
5. Text is split into chunks to improve processing efficiency. This is done using a custom CharacterTextSplitter class.
6. Vector Store Creation

## LAMMPS Simulations

You can request the AI agent to generate the LAMMPS input script and run the simmulation.
You can also paste your LAMMPS input script into the provided text area.
Click "Run Simulation" to execute the LAMMPS simulation using subprocess if you want to paste a script not generated by the AI agent.

## Chat with AI Agent

Ask questions about the uploaded files using the chat input.
The AI agent will provide responses based on the content of the files and previous interactions.

## API

To protect the OpenAI API Key I plan to develop a RESTful API to set and retrieve the OpenAI API key from a server. The API endpoints will be:
- POST /api/set_api_key: Set the OpenAI API key.
- GET /api/get_api_key: Retrieve the OpenAI API key.

## Technologies Used

Python
Streamlit
OpenAI API
Flask (for the RESTful API)
PyPDF2, docx (for file processing)

## Future Work

- Integration with vector database ChromaDB to store, enrich with RAG the AI agent and as a permanent storage in local machine which would later be modified into server hosted.
- Develop API to protect OpenAI API Key and eliminate manual input of OpenAI API Key
- Develop Front end sign up, login and home for the AI Agent Program

  


  
